# JSP-evaluation-factorial-value
The following JSP program calculates factorial values for an integer number, while the input is taken from an HTML form.
Instead of static contents that are indifferent, Java Servlet was introduced to generate dynamic web contents that are customized according to users' requests (e.g., in response to queries and search requests). However, it is a pain to use a Servlet to produce a presentable HTML page (via the out.prinltn() programming statements). It is even worse to maintain or modify that HTML page produced. Programmers, who wrote the servlet, may not be a good graphic designer, while a graphic designer does not understand Java programming.
JavaServer Pages (JSP) is a complimentary technology to Java Servlet which facilitates the mixing of dynamic and static web contents. JSP is Java's answer to the popular Microsoft's Active Server Pages (ASP).  JSP, like ASP, provides a elegant way to mix static and dynamic contents. The main page is written in regular HTML, while special tags are provided to insert pieces of Java programming codes. The business programming logic and the presentation are cleanly separated. This allows the programmers to focus on the business logic, while the web designer to concentrate on the presentation.
JSP is based on Servlet. In fact, we shall see later that a JSP page is internally translated into a Java servlet. We shall also explain later that "Servlet is HTML inside Java", while "JSP is Java inside HTML". Whatever you can't do in servlet, you can't do in JSP. JSP makes the creation and maintenance of dynamic HTML pages much easier than servlet. JSP is more convenience than servlet for dealing with the presentation, not more powerful.
JSP is meant to compliment Servlet, not a replacement. In a Model-View-Control (MVC) design, servlets are used for the controller, which involves complex programming logic. JSPs are used for the view, which deals with presentation. The model could be implemented using JavaBeans or Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) which may interface with a database.
To understand JSP, you need to understand Servlet (and HTTP, and HTML, and Java). Read "Java Servlet", if necessary.
